docs: adds documentation for personal api tokens (#2164)
Unleash/unleash: website/docs/reference/api-tokens-and-client-keys.mdx

:::

Use API tokens to connect to the Unleash server API. API tokens come in four distinct types:

-   [Admin tokens](#admin-tokens)
-   [Personal access tokens](#personal-access-tokens)
-   [Client tokens](#client-tokens)
-   [Front-end tokens](#front-end-tokens)

All types use [the same format](#format) but have different intended uses. Admin and client tokens are _secrets_ and should _not_ be exposed to end users. Front-end tokens, on the other hand, are not secret.

### The parts of an API token {#token-data}

Admin, client and front-end tokens contain the following pieces of information:

| Name | Description |
| --- | --- |
| Token name (sometimes called "username") | The token's name. Names are **not** required to be unique. |
| Type | What kind of token it is: admin, client, or front-end. |
| Projects | What projects a token has access to. |
| Environment | What environment the token has access to. |

> Personal access tokens follow their own special format, and only contain an optional description for the token and an expiry date.

Reviewer: Thanks for this! There's a few things that are still a little unclear to me. I've also changed the description to a table for consistency. What do you think? And is it correct?

Also, when you create a PAT via the API, what endpoint is it? What sort of payload do you use?

```suggestion
Personal access tokens follow a different format and consist of the following pieces of information: 

| Name | Description |
| --- | --- |
| Description | A short description of what the token is to be used for. Must be unique. |
| Expiry data | The time when the token will stop working. |
```

Author: It doesn't actually need to be a unique description right now but I think that's a bug actually. I think your description of how this works what it should be - a unique description. I'm okay with taking your text as is and patching PATs to take on this behaviour before we release it

You can create a PAT via the API. I'm not really sure you should though, because it'd be a pain. You'd need to do one of two things, either get a a cookie via the login mechanism that the front end uses and use that in your request or get a PAT and use that PAT in your request to create a new PAT.

If you can get one of those two tokens, you can call {{base_url}}/api/admin/user/tokens with the following packet:

```
{
    "description": "Some stuff",
    "expiresAt": "2022-12-09T09:41:21.705Z"
}
```

Is this something we want to document and encourage?

Reviewer: >  I'm okay with taking your text as is and patching PATs to take on this behaviour before we release it

Yeah, I'm down with that! I think making it unique is sensible if that is the only human-readable identifier we have. In that case, it's kind of like a "name"?

> I'm not really sure you should though, because it'd be a pain. 

Right, because a PAT can only be created for your own user. An admin can't create a PAT **for** someone, right?

The question was mostly to ensure that it's a separate endpoint, so the `type`, and `projects` etc. doesn't really come into play at all.

Author: Nah, you gotta be you to make a token for yourself. The admin user can make a token for the admin user but you can't make one on behalf of someone else (at least not not and I don't think we have plans to do so). It's very much a separate endpoint, for the same reasons you point out - it would be chaos to use the existing ones

:::

> Use API tokens to connect to the Unleash server API. API tokens come in fours distinct types:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use API tokens to connect to the Unleash server API. API tokens come in four distinct types:
```

> -   [Admin tokens](#admin-tokens)
> -   [Personal access tokens](#personal-access-tokens)
> -   [Client tokens](#client-tokens)
> -   [Front-end tokens](#front-end-tokens)

Reviewer: I think this list should be sorted alphabetically, but am happy to be challenged on that.

```suggestion
-   [Admin tokens](#admin-tokens)
-   [Client tokens](#client-tokens)
-   [Front-end tokens](#front-end-tokens)
-   [Personal access tokens](#personal-access-tokens)
```

Author: So the rationale here was that pats and admin tokens are so similar I wanted them grouped - happy to sort this alphabetically if you think that's clearer?

Reviewer: That was sorta what I figured. I think the list is short enough that either can work, so I'm not super opposed to leaving it as it was. Another option is putting the list in the same order the sections appear in the text. That might be the most sensible?

Author: I'm happy if you're happy. It's already in that order so I'm gonna close this comment thread if you're okay

| Name | Description |
| --- | --- |
| Token name (sometimes called "username") | The token's name. Names are **not** required to be unique. |
| Type | What kind of token it is: admin, client, user (personal api token) or front-end. |
| Projects | What projects a token has access to - not present in personal api tokens. |

> | Environment | What environment the token has access to - not present in personal api tokens. |

Reviewer: I wonder if personal api tokens should have a different table: they don't have projects or environments, but they do have an additional expiration date that the others do not. Thoughts?

Author: Ye, that's a pretty good idea actually, let me see what I can do here

Author: ...actually on second thought, I'm not sure that PATs want their own table - they don't actually include any of the information described in the table. Maybe just a note explaining their format? WDYT?

Reviewer: Interesting. Do personal API tokens have names? I know that GitHub lets you name them (so you can have different ones for different purposes). But I think you're going in the right direction. In that case, we should probably point out that the table only applies to the other API tokens and ask the user to refer to the PAT section for info on them.

Author: They have a description but not a name, serves the same purpose as GH I think.

I've just added some text, but I haven't linked it to anything - we could link to the section higher up but that feels redundant, or the how to guide but I'm not sure that makes life better. Will you give it some eyeballs and see how you feel?

Support for scoped admin tokens with more fine-grained permissions is currently in the planning stage.

### Personal access tokens

> **Personal access tokens** are a special form of admin tokens and grant access to the same resources that the user that created them has access to. These permissions are dynamic, so if a user's permissions change through addition of a custom role, the token will likewise have altered permissions. Using a personal access token to modify resources will reflect the creating user's name in the event log for that operation. All personal access tokens have a lifetime and will stop working after the expiration date.

Reviewer: Some minor rewording and breakup suggestions

```suggestion
**Personal access tokens** are a special form of admin tokens and grant access to the same resources that the user that created them has access to. These permissions are dynamic, so if a user's permissions change through addition of a custom role, the token will likewise have altered permissions. 

When using a personal access token to modify resources, the event log will list the token creator's name for that operation. 

All personal access tokens have a lifetime and **will stop working after the expiration** date.
```

Use personal access tokens to:

> - Provide more fine grained permissions for automation than an admin token provides

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Provide more fine-grained permissions for automation than an admin token provides
```

The **hash** is 64 character long hexadecimal string.

> Personal API tokens do not have either the project or environment parts, since they mimic the user that created them. In place of the project field, the string `user` is present so that the token can be identified as a personal access token.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Personal API tokens do not contain project or environment information, since they mimic the user that created them. Instead, the token starts with the string `user`.
```

    ```
    *:development.be44368985f7fb3237c584ef86f3d6bdada42ddbd63a019d26955178
    ```

> -   A personal access token with access to everything the user that created them has:

Reviewer: I don't think we need to repeat how PATs work here. It's mentioned for the other tokens because their form change depending on the details, but if I understand correctly, PATs are always the same: `user:<hash>`, yeah?

```suggestion
-   A personal access token:
```

Author: Yeah, they're always the same thing, sounds good, committed!
